 a gentle introduction to CV

 REMINDER: ADD IMAGE PROCESSING TO PAPER LIST!

 The goal of the field and distinctness from image processing:
 The goal is to understand the content of images and video - this is typically done by attempts of reproducing human vision capabilities.
Image processing is the disciplin of creating a new image from an old image by changing it - it is part of the field of digital processing. It is NOT connected to the understanding of the image content.
examples include: brightness and color adjustment, cropping bounds and removing noise from the image.

 challenge of CV
One problem in CV may be addressed with a hand-crafted statistical method while another might need the use of machine learning algorithms.
The understanding process might involve descriptors to describe the image using text, binary or 3D models or some else.
Not as easy as intuitively assumed. Partly because we don't really understand human vision. Also we have a really diverse world at our hands with different orientation of objects, different lightning and state of occlusion and so on... Computers work well for tightly constrained problems but not for general ones.

 Typical problems and tasks in CV
An algorithm has to know what an image contains to make user access viable. This is an easy task for humans.




"At an abstract level, the goal of computer vision problems is to use the observed image data to infer something about the world."
"Computer vision as a field is an intellectual frontier. Like any frontier, it is exciting and disorganized, and there is often no reliable authority to appeal to. Many useful ideas have no theoretical grounding, and some theories are useless in practice; developed areas are widely scattered, and often one looks completely inaccessible from the other."
"Computer vision is the automated extraction of information from images. Information can mean anything from 3D models, camera position, object detection and recognition to grouping and searching image content."